# MovieLens-Recommender-System
Final project for the Class Social Network Analytics

Ever since Netflix started providing ‘on-demand’ video services in 2007, the online video streaming industry has not only brought in $125 billion in revenue but also taken over other models such as Cable and Cinemas. With so much content on the internet, one of the biggest problems consumers face nowadays is what to actually watch. With so many choices available, consumers are almost burdened, and providers must aid consumers by recommending the ‘right’ content to the right viewer. MovieLens, a web-based recommender system is one platform that helps solve this issue. Run by GroupLens, a research lab at the University of Minnesota, the virtual community recommends movies for users to watch based on their film preferences using collaborative filtering of these members’ movie reviews and ratings. Collaborative filtering is a technique that looks for patterns in user’s ratings in order to produce recommendations. It works by searching through a large group of people and finding a smaller subset of users with similar tastes. By combining the items both parties like, it creates a list of movie suggestions. The success of MovieLens can be measured by the fact that their users have contributed 11M movie ratings and regularly utilize this platform to decide which movie they should watch next, and because their dataset has constantly been rated as one of the best for recommendation systems research.

When learning about their service, our first thought was How does MovieLens make recommendations and what factors are being considered when making these recommendations? More specifically, our research focuses on understanding how we can leverage movie-movie networks and/or user-user networks to measure similarity, and whether this similarity measure can make accurate recommendations to users. We will go on to utilize user-based collaborative filtering (UBCF) during the process, instead of content-based filtering, which relies on movie characteristics such as genre/release year.
